---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Axoloots Primers

## About this Repository

This document is composed of 4 sections. The first section talks about the general outlook on the current state of wetlands of the world and in the state of the wetland found in Mexico City which has suffered major environmental impacts. In section 2, the scope of the pilot project of [Symbiotik](https://symbiotik.co/) is explained by the surface area characterization. In section 3, the regeneration technique called **“Micro-Reserve”**, proposed by [Symbiotik](https://symbiotik.co/) to be implemented is explained. Finally, in section 4, the theory of the model of value attribution to ecosystem services enhanced or generated by the regeneration technique is explained, as well as the chosen ecosystem services and valuation techniques.

## Intro to Axoloots

This project called **“Axoloots”** blends multi-disciplinary imagination with practical implementation. The seeds of the project originate from visualizing a world where its inhabitants, once and for all, acknowledge the symbiotic relationship that exists between all biotic and abiotic elements that occupy space in this planet. The roots of the project lie in blending imagination with avant-garde research and development that has focused on developing and implementing ways to grant nature the importance it has long been due. The stem involves the connection between the decentralized networks with the physical world; being the oracle the connective tissue. The leaves represent the building blocks of a new world, a world where working alongside nature it's more attractive than working against it. The flowers are the fruits of fusing technology, philosophy, imagination and nature. The flowers can be of different shapes, sizes and colors, depending on the perspective of the owner.

## First stage of Axoloots

The first stage of the project involved the identification of those non-governmental organizations that were already working alongside nature. [Symbiotik](https://symbiotik.co/) identified the NGOs that were working to preserve the population of an emblematic amphibian called axolotl. After establishing common objectives, the NGOs agreed to collaborate with us in order to ensure the protection of the axolotl. The positive impacts derived from the implementation of the technique were analyzed in order to know which ecosystem services were enhanced and/or produced in-situ. 25 ecosystem services were identified to be produced and/or enhanced by the implementation of the regenerative technique called “Micro-Reserve”. **For the first stage of the project, 5 were selected in order to attribute them a monetary value.**

The other 15 ecosystem services are planned to be monitored and attributed a monetary value during the second and third stage of the project. The most appropriate valuation technique was chosen for each of the 5 ecosystem services selected for this first stage of the project. Finally, compilation of the necessary data will be made in order to calculate the monetary value of the selected ecosystem services and to monitor the variables that will indicate that the expected results of the regenerative technique are being met.
